Feature/lockfiles new (#1790)
conan-io/docs: versioning/lockfiles/build_order.rst

    .. code:: bash

        $ git clone https://github.com/conan-io/examples.git
        $ cd features/lockfiles/build_order
        # $ python build.py only to run the full example, but better go step by step

The example in this section uses ``full_version_mode``, that is, if a package changes any part of its version, its consumers will
need to build a new binary because a new ``package_id`` will be computed. This example will use version ranges, and
it is not necessary to have revisions enabled. It also do not require a server, everything can be reproduced locally.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan config set general.default_package_id_mode=full_version_mode

Let's start by creating the initial dependency graph, without binaries (just the exported recipes), in our local cache:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan export pkga pkga/0.1@user/testing
    $ conan export pkgb pkgb/0.1@user/testing
    $ conan export pkgc pkgc/0.1@user/testing
    $ conan export pkgd pkgd/0.1@user/testing
    $ conan export app1 app1/0.1@user/testing
    $ conan export app2 app2/0.1@user/testing

Now we will create a lockfile that captures the dependency graph for ``app1/0.1@user/testing``.

> In the same way we created lockfiles for a local ``conanfile.py`` in a user folder, we can also
> create a lockfile for a recipe in the Conan cache, with the ``--reference`` argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the same way we created lockfiles for a local *conanfile.py* in a user folder, we can also
create a lockfile for a recipe in the Conan cache, with the :command:`--reference` argument:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan lock create --reference=app1/0.1@user/testing --lockfile-out=app1.lock

The resulting *app1.lock* lockfile will not be able to completely lock the binaries because such
binaries do not exist at all. This can be checked in the *app1.lock* file, the packages do not
contain a package revision (``prev``) field at all:

.. code-block:: text

     {
        ...
        "4": {
        "ref": "pkga/0.1@user/testing",
        "options": "",
        "package_id": "5ab84d6acfe1f23c4fae0ab88f26e3a396351ac9",
        "context": "host"
        }
        ...
     }

We can now compute the "build-order" of the dependency graph. The "build-order" lists
in order all the packages that needs to be built from sources. As the lockfile contains

> the information of existing locked package binaries, the logic is the following:

Reviewer: You said previously that "such binaries do not exist at all" and here you say "the lockfile contains the information of existing locked package binaries". I think the difference is very subtle and is not clear what do you mean. I think the word "exist" in both sentences makes it confusing

- If a package is fully locked (it contains a package revision field ``prev`` in the lockfile),

>   it cannot be built from sources, so it will never be returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  it will not be built from sources and will **never** appear in the build-order list.
```

> - If a package is not fully locked (it does not contain a package revision ``prev`` in the lockfile),
>   the package will be returned. This situation happens both when the package binary doesn't exist yet,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a package is not fully locked (it does **not** contain a package revision ``prev`` in the lockfile),
  it will appear in the build-order list. This situation happens both when the package binary doesn't exist yet,
```

  or when the ``--build`` argument was used while creating the lockfile.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan lock build-order app1.lock --json=build_order.json

The resulting *build_order.json* file is a list of lists, structured by levels of possible parallel builds:

.. code-block:: text

    [
      # First level pkga
      [["pkga/0.1@user/testing", "5ab8...1ac9", "host", "4"]],
      # Second level pkgb and pkgc
      [["pkgb/0.1@user/testing", "cfd1...ec23", "host", "3"],
       ["pkgc/0.1@user/testing", "cfd1...ec23", "host", "5"]],
      # Third level pkgd
      [["pkgd/0.1@user/testing", "d075...5b9d", "host", "2"]],
      # Fourth level pkgd
      [["app1/0.1@user/testing", "3bf2...5188", "host", "1"]]
    ]

Every item in the outer list is a "level" in the graph, a set of packages that needs to be built, and

> are independent to every other package in the level, so they can be built in parallel. Levels in the
> build order must be respected, the second level cannot be started until the first level has finished

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are independent of every other package in the level, so they can be built in parallel. Levels in the
build order must be respected, as the second level cannot be built until all the packages in the first level are built
```

and so on. In this example, once the build of ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` finishes, as it is the only

> item in the first level, the second level can start, and it can build in parallel both ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing``
> and ``pkgc/0.1@user/testing``, because, as we can see in the graph, they are independent. It is necessary

Reviewer: In parallel at the end and avoid repetition
```suggestion
item in the first level, the second level can start, and it can build both ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` and ``pkgc/0.1@user/testing`` in parallel. It is necessary
```

that both of them finish their build to be able to continue to the third level, that contains
``pkgd/0.1@user/testing``, because this package depends on them.

Every item in each level has 4 elements: ``[ref, package_id, context, id]``. At the moment the only

> necessary one is the first one. The ``ref`` value is the one that can be used for example in a ``install``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
necessary one is the first one. The ``ref`` value is the one that can be used for example in a :command:`conan install`
```

command like:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install <ref> --build=<ref> --lockfile=mylock.lock

Defining builds
---------------

> The definition of what needs to be built comes from the existing binaries plus the ``--build``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definition of what needs to be built comes from the existing binaries plus the :command:`--build`
```

> argument in the ``conan lock create``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
argument in the :command:`conan lock create`.
```

Let's build all the binaries for the exported packages first:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Build app1 and dependencies
    $ conan install app1/0.1@user/testing --build=missing

> Now that there are binaries for all packages in the cache, capture a new lockfile, and compute its build order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that there are binaries for all packages in the cache, let's capture the in a new lockfile and compute the build order:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>     # Capture a new lockfile, which will find all package binaries and fully lock them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Create a new lockfile now with all the package binaries
```

    $ conan lock create --reference=app1/0.1@user/testing --lockfile-out=app1.lock

>     # And check whats need to be built

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # And check which one needs to be built
```

    $ conan lock build-order app1.lock --json=build_order.json
    # The build order is emtpy, nothing to build
    []

> The result of this build order is empty. As the ``lock create`` managed to find existing binaries,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result of this build order is empty. As the :command:`conan lock create` found existing binaries,
```

everything is fully locked, nothing needs to be built.

> If we specify ``--build``, then the behavior is different:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we specify the :command:`--build` flag, then the behavior is different:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan lock create --reference=app1/0.1@user/testing --lockfile-out=app1.lock --build
    # the lockfile will not lock the binaries

>     # And check whats need to be built

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # And check which one needs to be built
```

    $ conan lock build-order app1.lock --json=build_order.json

>     # The build order is emtpy, nothing to build

Reviewer: the what? 🤣 
```suggestion
```

    [[["pkga/0.1@user/testing", "5ab8...1ac9", "host", "4"]], ...

This feature is powerful when combined with ``package_id_modes``, because it can
automatically define the minimum set of packages that needs to be built for any
change in the dependency graph.

Let's say that a new version ``pkgb/2.0@user/testing`` is created. But if we
check the ``pkgd`` *conanfile.py* requirement, we can see that this falls outside

> of the valid version range. Then, it does not affect ``pkgd`` or ``app1`` and

Reviewer: What version range? I know it should be in the conanfiles in the example, but for people just reading the story to understand, it will be more helpful to have it here as well.

nothing needs to be built:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan create pkgb pkgb/2.0@user/testing
    $ conan lock create --reference=app1/0.1@user/testing --lockfile-out=app1.lock
    $ conan lock build-order app1.lock --json=build_order.json
    [] # Empty, nothing to build, pkgb/2.0 does not become part of app1

> If on the contrary, a new ``pkgb/0.2@user/testing`` is created, and we capture a

Reviewer: Can we use a different number? It is easy to read it wrong

Author: Better change the above to 1.1, it is more natural, and still outside of the range.

new lockfile, it will contain such new version. Other packages, like ``pkga`` and
``pkgc`` are not affected by this new version, and will be fully locked in the lockfile,
but the dependents of ``pkgb`` now won't be locked and it will be necessary to build them:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan create pkgb pkgb/0.2@user/testing
    $ conan lock create --reference=app1/0.1@user/testing --lockfile-out=app1.lock
    $ conan lock build-order app1.lock --json=build_order.json
    [[['pkgd/0.1@user/testing', '97e9...b7f4', 'host', '2']],
     [['app1/0.1@user/testing', '2bf1...e405', 'host', '1']]]

So in this case the *app1.lock* is doing these things:

> - Fully locking the non-affected packages (``pkga/0.1``, pkgc/0.1``)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fully locking the non-affected packages (``pkga/0.1``, ``pkgc/0.1``)
```

> - Fully locking the ``pkgb/0.2``, as the binary that was just created is valid for our ``app1``.
>   Note that this might not always be true, and ``app1`` build could require a diffeent ``pkgb/0.2``
>   binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fully locking the ``pkgb/0.2``, as the binary that was just created is valid for our ``app1``
  (Note that this might not always be true, and ``app1`` build could require a different ``pkgb/0.2``
  binary).
```
